# QUStudentManagement
Our application is a student management system that can be used by students, instructors, and administrators. When the app is first loaded, the user is prompted to log in based on their role, i.e. student, instructor, or administrator. The user will not be allowed to log in if their email address or password is invalid. In addition, the user cannot log in as a different role than theirs, e.g. a student cannot log in as an instructor.
## Student:
Once a student logs in, they are taken to a page where all the offered courses are displayed. The courses are displayed in a table that includes the course details. The student can search for a specific course either by name or category. Students can also register for a course if they have completed the required prerequisite course and if there are seats available in the class. If these conditions are not met, the student cannot register for the course, and an error message is displayed. The student can also click on the “Courses” button where they can view the list of courses they have successfully completed and their grade for that course. They can also see courses that they are currently taking (in progress) and those that are still pending (i.e. the registration is still open, and the course has not started yet).   
## Administrator: 
When the administrator logs in, a page that shows courses that are open for registration and courses that are in progress is displayed. The courses are shown in a table along with their details, and the admin can either validate or cancel the courses that are open for registration. A course/class is validated if there are enough students registered, i.e. 50% or more of the seats are taken. A course cannot be validated if there is no chosen instructor. Once a course/class is validated, it can start, and it is shown as an “in progress” class. If a course/class is cancelled, it will be removed. Administrators can also create a new course/class, where they add the course name, category, code, and prerequisite courses. The admin chooses the instructor for the class based on preference or expertise.
## Instructor:
When an instructor logs in, a page that shows their current classes is displayed. An instructor can click on the “Grades” button for every one of their classes to set the students’ grades in that course. Instructors can also show interest in courses that are related to their expertise.
